docs/docsite/rst/porting_guides/porting_guide_2.8.rst, before:

.. _porting_2.8_guide:

*************************
Ansible 2.8 Porting Guide
*************************

This section discusses the behavioral changes between Ansible 2.7 and Ansible 2.8.

It is intended to assist in updating your playbooks, plugins and other parts of your Ansible infrastructure so they will work with this version of Ansible.

We suggest you read this page along with `Ansible Changelog for 2.8 <https://github.com/ansible/ansible/blob/devel/changelogs/CHANGELOG-v2.8.rst>`_ to understand what updates you may need to make.

This document is part of a collection on porting. The complete list of porting guides can be found at :ref:`porting guides <porting_guides>`.

.. contents:: Topics

Playbook
========

Distribution Facts
------------------

The information returned for the ``ansible_distribution_*`` group of facts may have changed
slightly.  Ansible 2.8 uses a new backend library for information about distributions: `nir0s/distro <https://github.com/nir0s/distro>`_. This library runs on Python-3.8 and fixes many bugs, including correcting release and version names.

The two facts used in playbooks most often, ``ansible_distribution`` and ``ansible_distribution_major_version``, should not change. If you discover a change in these facts, please file a bug so we can address the
difference.  However, other facts like ``ansible_distribution_release`` and
``ansible_distribution_version`` may change as erroneous information gets corrected.

Imports as handlers
-------------------

Beginning in version 2.8, a task cannot notify ``import_tasks`` or a static ``include`` that is specified in ``handlers``.

The goal of a static import is to act as a pre-processor, where the import is replaced by the tasks defined within the imported file. When
using an import, a task can notify any of the named tasks within the imported file, but not the name of the import itself.

To achieve the results of notifying a single name but running mulitple handlers, utilize ``include_tasks``, or ``listen`` :ref:`handlers`.

Jinja Undefined values
----------------------

Beginning in version 2.8, attempting to access an attribute of an Undefined value in Jinja will return another Undefined value, rather than throwing an error immediately. This means that you can now simply use
a default with a value in a nested data structure when you don't know if the intermediate values are defined.

In Ansible 2.8::

    {{ foo.bar.baz | default('DEFAULT') }}

In Ansible 2.7 and older::

    {{ ((foo | default({})).bar | default({})).baz | default('DEFAULT') }}

    or

    {{ foo.bar.baz if (foo is defined and foo.bar is defined and foo.bar.baz is defined) else 'DEFAULT' }}

Module option conversion to string
----------------------------------

Beginning in version 2.8, Ansible will warn if a module expects a string, but a non-string value is passed and automatically converted to a string. This highlights potential problems where, for example, a ``yes`` or ``true`` (parsed as truish boolean value) would be converted to the string ``'True'``, or where a version number ``1.10`` (parsed as float value) would be converted to ``'1.0'``. Such conversions can result in unexpected behavior depending on context.

This behavior can be changed to be an error or to be ignored by setting the ``ANSIBLE_STRING_CONVERSION_ACTION`` environment variable, or by setting the ``string_conversion_action`` configuration in the ``defaults`` section of ``ansible.cfg``.

Command line facts
------------------

``cmdline`` facts returned in system will be deprecated in favor of ``proc_cmdline``. This change handles special case where Kernel command line parameter contains multiple values with the same key.

Command Line
============

Become Prompting
----------------

Beginning in version 2.8, by default Ansible will use the word ``BECOME`` to prompt you for a password for elevated privileges (``sudo`` privileges on unix systems or ``enable`` mode on network devices):

By default in Ansible 2.8::

    ansible-playbook --become --ask-become-pass site.yml
    BECOME password:

If you want the prompt to display the specific ``become_method`` you're using, instead of the agnostic value ``BECOME``, set :ref:`AGNOSTIC_BECOME_PROMPT` to ``False`` in your Ansible configuration.

By default in Ansible 2.7, or with ``AGNOSTIC_BECOME_PROMPT=False`` in Ansible 2.8::

    ansible-playbook --become --ask-become-pass site.yml
    SUDO password:

Deprecated
==========

* Setting the async directory using ``ANSIBLE_ASYNC_DIR`` as an task/play environment key is deprecated and will be
  removed in Ansible 2.12. You can achieve the same result by setting ``ansible_async_dir`` as a variable like::

      - name: run task with custom async directory
        command: sleep 5
        async: 10
        vars:
          ansible_aync_dir: /tmp/.ansible_async

* Plugin writers who need a ``FactCache`` object should be aware of two deprecations:

  1. The ``FactCache`` class has moved from ``ansible.plugins.cache.FactCache`` to
     ``ansible.vars.fact_cache.FactCache``.  This is because the ``FactCache`` is not part of the
     cache plugin API and cache plugin authors should not be subclassing it.  ``FactCache`` is still
     available from its old location but will issue a deprecation warning when used from there.  The
     old location will be removed in Ansible 2.12.

  2. The ``FactCache.update()`` method has been converted to follow the dict API.  It now takes a
     dictionary as its sole argument and updates itself with the dictionary's items.  The previous
     API where ``update()`` took a key and a value will now issue a deprecation warning and will be
     removed in 2.12.  If you need the old behaviour switch to ``FactCache.first_order_merge()``
     instead.

Modules
=======

Major changes in popular modules are detailed here

The exec wrapper that runs PowerShell modules has been changed to set ``$ErrorActionPreference = "Stop"`` globally.
This may mean that custom modules can fail if they implicitly relied on this behaviour. To get the old behaviour back,
add ``$ErrorActionPreference = "Continue"`` to the top of the module. This change was made to restore the old behaviour
of the EAP that was accidentally removed in a previous release and ensure that modules are more resiliant to errors
that may occur in execution.

PowerShell module options and option choices are currently case insensitive to what is defined in the module
specification. This behaviour is deprecated and a warning displayed to the user if a case insensitive match was found.
A future release of Ansible will make these checks case sensitive.

Modules removed
---------------

The following modules no longer exist:

* ec2_remote_facts
* azure
* cs_nic
* netscaler
* win_msi

Deprecation notices
-------------------

The following modules will be removed in Ansible 2.12. Please update your playbooks accordingly.

* ``foreman`` use <https://github.com/theforeman/foreman-ansible-modules> instead.
* ``katello`` use <https://github.com/theforeman/foreman-ansible-modules> instead.
* ``github_hooks`` use :ref:`github_webhook <github_webhook_module>` and :ref:`github_webhook_facts <github_webhook_facts_module>` instead.
* ``digital_ocean`` use :ref `digital_ocean_droplet <digital_ocean_droplet_module>` instead.
* ``gce`` use :ref `gce_compute_instance <gce_compute_instance_module>` instead.
* ``panos`` use `Ansible Galaxy role <https://galaxy.ansible.com/PaloAltoNetworks/paloaltonetworks>`_ instead.


Noteworthy module changes
-------------------------

* The ``foreman`` and ``katello`` modules have been deprecated in favor of a set of modules that are broken out per entity with better idempotency in mind.
* The ``foreman`` and ``katello`` modules replacement is officially part of the Foreman Community and supported there.
* The ``tower_credential`` module originally required the ``ssh_key_data`` to be the path to a ssh_key_file.
  In order to work like Tower/AWX, ``ssh_key_data`` now contains the content of the file.
  The previous behavior can be achieved with ``lookup('file', '/path/to/file')``.
* The ``win_scheduled_task`` module deprecated support for specifying a trigger repetition as a list and this format
  will be removed in Ansible 2.12. Instead specify the repetition as a dictionary value.

* The ``win_feature`` module has removed the deprecated ``restart_needed`` return value, use the standardised
  ``reboot_required`` value instead.

* The ``win_package`` module has removed the deprecated ``restart_required`` and ``exit_code`` return value, use the
  standardised ``reboot_required`` and ``rc`` value instead.

* The ``win_get_url`` module has removed the deprecated ``win_get_url`` return dictionary, contained values are
  returned directly.

* The ``win_get_url`` module has removed the deprecated ``skip_certificate_validation`` option, use the standardised
  ``validate_certs`` option instead.

* The ``vmware_local_role_facts`` module now returns a list of dicts instead of a dict of dicts for role information.

* If ``docker_network`` or ``docker_volume`` were called with ``diff: yes``, ``check_mode: yes`` or ``debug: yes``,
  a return value called ``diff`` was returned of type ``list``. To enable proper diff output, this was changed to
  type ``dict``; the original ``list`` is returned as ``diff.differences``.

* The ``na_ontap_cluster_peer`` module has replaced ``source_intercluster_lif`` and ``dest_intercluster_lif`` string options with
  ``source_intercluster_lifs`` and ``dest_intercluster_lifs`` list options

* The ``modprobe`` module now detects kernel builtins. Previously, attempting to remove (with ``state: absent``)
  a builtin kernel module succeeded without any error message because ``modprobe`` did not detect the module as
  ``present``. Now, ``modprobe`` will fail if a kernel module is builtin and ``state: absent`` (with an error message
  from the modprobe binary like ``modprobe: ERROR: Module nfs is builtin.``), and it will succeed without reporting
  changed if ``state: present``. Any playbooks that are using ``changed_when: no`` to mask this quirk can safely
  remove that workaround. To get the previous behavior when applying ``state: absent`` to a builtin kernel module,
  use ``failed_when: false`` or ``ignore_errors: true`` in your playbook.

* The ``digital_ocean`` module has been deprecated in favor of modules that do not require external dependencies.
  This allows for more flexibility and better module support.

* The ``docker_container`` module has deprecated the returned fact ``docker_container``. The same value is
  available as the returned variable ``docker_container``. The returned fact will be removed in Ansible 2.12.
* The ``docker_network`` module has deprecated the returned fact ``docker_container``. The same value is
  available as the returned variable ``docker_network``. The returned fact will be removed in Ansible 2.12.
* The ``docker_volume`` module has deprecated the returned fact ``docker_container``. The same value is
  available as the returned variable ``docker_volume``. The returned fact will be removed in Ansible 2.12.

* The ``docker_service`` module was renamed to :ref:`docker_compose <docker_compose_module>`.
* The renamed ``docker_compose`` module used to return one fact per service, named same as the service. A dictionary
  of these facts is returned as the regular return value ``service_facts``. The returned facts will be removed in
  Ansible 2.12.

* The ``docker_swarm_service`` module no longer sets a defaults for the following options:
    * ``user``. Before, the default was ``root``.
    * ``update_delay``. Before, the default was ``10``.
    * ``update_parallelism``. Before, the default was ``1``.

* ``vmware_vm_facts`` used to return dict of dict with virtual machine's facts. Ansible 2.8 and onwards will return list of dict with virtual machine's facts.
  Please see module ``vmware_vm_facts`` documentation for example.

* The ``panos`` modules have been deprecated in favor of using the Palo Alto Networks `Ansible Galaxy role
  <https://galaxy.ansible.com/PaloAltoNetworks/paloaltonetworks>`_.  Contributions to the role can be made
  `here <https://github.com/PaloAltoNetworks/ansible-pan>`_.


Plugins
=======

* Connection plugins have been standardized to allow use of ``ansible_<conn-type>_user``
  and ``ansible_<conn-type>_password`` variables.  Variables such as
  ``ansible_<conn-type>_pass`` and ``ansible_<conn-type>_username`` are treated
  with lower priority than the standardized names and may be deprecated in the
  future.  In general, the ``ansible_user`` and ``ansible_password`` vars should
  be used unless there is a reason to use the connection-specific variables.

* The ``powershell`` shell plugin now uses ``async_dir`` to define the async path for the results file and the default
  has changed to ``%USERPROFILE%\.ansible_async``. To control this path now, either set the ``ansible_async_dir``
  variable or the ``async_dir`` value in the ``powershell`` section of the config ini.

* Order of enabled inventory plugins (:ref:`INVENTORY_ENABLED`) has been updated, :ref:`auto <auto_inventory>` is now before :ref:`yaml <yaml_inventory>` and :ref:`ini <ini_inventory>`.

* The private ``_options`` attribute has been removed from the ``CallbackBase`` class of callback
  plugins.  If you have a third-party callback plugin which needs to access the command line arguments,
  use code like the following instead of trying to use ``self._options``:

  .. code-block:: python

     from ansible import context
     [...]
     tags = context.CLIARGS['tags']

  ``context.CLIARGS`` is a read-only dictionary so normal dictionary retrieval methods like
  ``CLIARGS.get('tags')`` and ``CLIARGS['tags']`` work as expected but you won't be able to modify
  the cli arguments at all.

* Play recap now counts ``ignored`` and ``rescued`` tasks as well as ``ok``, ``changed``, ``unreachable``, ``failed`` and ``skipped`` tasks, thanks to two additional stat counters in the ``default`` callback plugin. Tasks that fail and have ``ignore_errors: yes`` set are listed as ``ignored``. Tasks that fail and then execute a rescue section are listed as ``rescued``. Note that ``rescued`` tasks are no longer counted as ``failed`` as in Ansible 2.7 (and earlier).

* ``osx_say`` callback plugin was renamed into :ref:`say <say_callback>`.

Porting custom scripts
======================

Display class
-------------

As of Ansible 2.8, the ``Display`` class is now a "singleton". Instead of using ``__main__.display`` each file should
import and instantiate ``ansible.utils.display.Display`` on its own.

**OLD** In Ansible 2.7 (and earlier) the following was used to access the ``display`` object:

.. code-block:: python

   try:
       from __main__ import display
   except ImportError:
       from ansible.utils.display import Display
       display = Display()

**NEW** In Ansible 2.8 the following should be used:

.. code-block:: python

   from ansible.utils.display import Display
   display = Display()

Networking
==========

* The ``eos_config``, ``ios_config``, and ``nxos_config`` modules have removed the deprecated
  ``save`` and ``force`` parameters, use the ``save_when`` parameter to replicate their
  functionality.

* The ``nxos_vrf_af`` module has removed the ``safi`` paramter. This parameter was deprecated
  in Ansible 2.4 and has had no impact on the module since then.

Commit message:

Python interpreter discovery
* No longer blindly default to only `/usr/bin/python`
* `ansible_python_interpreter` defaults to `auto_legacy`, which will discover the platform Python interpreter on some platforms (but still favor `/usr/bin/python` if present for backward compatibility). Use `auto` to always use the discovered interpreter, append `_silent` to either value to suppress warnings.
* includes new doc utility method `get_versioned_doclink` to generate a major.minor versioned doclink against docs.ansible.com (or some other config-overridden URL)

docs/docsite/rst/porting_guides/porting_guide_2.8.rst, after:

.. _porting_2.8_guide:

*************************
Ansible 2.8 Porting Guide
*************************

This section discusses the behavioral changes between Ansible 2.7 and Ansible 2.8.

It is intended to assist in updating your playbooks, plugins and other parts of your Ansible infrastructure so they will work with this version of Ansible.

We suggest you read this page along with `Ansible Changelog for 2.8 <https://github.com/ansible/ansible/blob/devel/changelogs/CHANGELOG-v2.8.rst>`_ to understand what updates you may need to make.

This document is part of a collection on porting. The complete list of porting guides can be found at :ref:`porting guides <porting_guides>`.

.. contents:: Topics

Playbook
========

Distribution Facts
------------------

The information returned for the ``ansible_distribution_*`` group of facts may have changed
slightly.  Ansible 2.8 uses a new backend library for information about distributions: `nir0s/distro <https://github.com/nir0s/distro>`_. This library runs on Python-3.8 and fixes many bugs, including correcting release and version names.

The two facts used in playbooks most often, ``ansible_distribution`` and ``ansible_distribution_major_version``, should not change. If you discover a change in these facts, please file a bug so we can address the
difference.  However, other facts like ``ansible_distribution_release`` and
``ansible_distribution_version`` may change as erroneous information gets corrected.

Imports as handlers
-------------------

Beginning in version 2.8, a task cannot notify ``import_tasks`` or a static ``include`` that is specified in ``handlers``.

The goal of a static import is to act as a pre-processor, where the import is replaced by the tasks defined within the imported file. When
using an import, a task can notify any of the named tasks within the imported file, but not the name of the import itself.

To achieve the results of notifying a single name but running mulitple handlers, utilize ``include_tasks``, or ``listen`` :ref:`handlers`.

Jinja Undefined values
----------------------

Beginning in version 2.8, attempting to access an attribute of an Undefined value in Jinja will return another Undefined value, rather than throwing an error immediately. This means that you can now simply use
a default with a value in a nested data structure when you don't know if the intermediate values are defined.

In Ansible 2.8::

    {{ foo.bar.baz | default('DEFAULT') }}

In Ansible 2.7 and older::

    {{ ((foo | default({})).bar | default({})).baz | default('DEFAULT') }}

    or

    {{ foo.bar.baz if (foo is defined and foo.bar is defined and foo.bar.baz is defined) else 'DEFAULT' }}

Module option conversion to string
----------------------------------

Beginning in version 2.8, Ansible will warn if a module expects a string, but a non-string value is passed and automatically converted to a string. This highlights potential problems where, for example, a ``yes`` or ``true`` (parsed as truish boolean value) would be converted to the string ``'True'``, or where a version number ``1.10`` (parsed as float value) would be converted to ``'1.0'``. Such conversions can result in unexpected behavior depending on context.

This behavior can be changed to be an error or to be ignored by setting the ``ANSIBLE_STRING_CONVERSION_ACTION`` environment variable, or by setting the ``string_conversion_action`` configuration in the ``defaults`` section of ``ansible.cfg``.


Command line facts
------------------

``cmdline`` facts returned in system will be deprecated in favor of ``proc_cmdline``. This change handles special case where Kernel command line parameter contains multiple values with the same key.


Python Interpreter Discovery
============================

Ansible 2.8 now discovers the default Python interpreter to use for many platforms the first time a Python module is
run on a target.

``ansible_python_interpreter`` now defaults to ``auto_legacy``, which consults a lookup table and selects the default
Python if the target platform/version is listed in the table. It will also favor using ``/usr/bin/python`` if present,
and show a deprecation warning that the default behavior will change in 4 releases to use the discovered interpreter
instead. This interim behavior ensures that Ansible can continue to target platforms that added ``/usr/bin/python``
instead of explicitly setting ``ansible_python_interpreter`` to the correct platform-included Python interpreter
(eg, Ubuntu 16.04+, RHEL8, Fedora 23+).

Setting ``ansible_python_interpreter`` to ``auto`` will behave the same way, except the discovered interpreter will
always be used, regardless of the presence of ``/usr/bin/python``. This behavior will become the default after 4 releases.

If the target platform is not listed with a known Python interpreter, a fallback list of Python interpreter names is
used to discover an interpreter on the path that might work. If one is found, a warning is displayed that while a Python
interpreter was found, future installation of a different Python on the target could lead to changed behavior. E.g., if
an interpreter name from higher in the fallback list is installed later, any installed dependencies with the original
interpreter will no longer be used. The best solution in this case is to explicitly set ``ansible_python_interpreter``
to the path of the correct interpreter.

To use ``auto`` or ``auto_legacy`` behavior while disabling all interpreter discovery warnings, add ``_silent`` to the
end of the value when setting ``ansible_python_interpreter`` (e.g., ``auto_legacy_silent``).


Command Line
============

Become Prompting
----------------

Beginning in version 2.8, by default Ansible will use the word ``BECOME`` to prompt you for a password for elevated privileges (``sudo`` privileges on unix systems or ``enable`` mode on network devices):

By default in Ansible 2.8::

    ansible-playbook --become --ask-become-pass site.yml
    BECOME password:

If you want the prompt to display the specific ``become_method`` you're using, instead of the agnostic value ``BECOME``, set :ref:`AGNOSTIC_BECOME_PROMPT` to ``False`` in your Ansible configuration.

By default in Ansible 2.7, or with ``AGNOSTIC_BECOME_PROMPT=False`` in Ansible 2.8::

    ansible-playbook --become --ask-become-pass site.yml
    SUDO password:

Deprecated
==========

* Setting the async directory using ``ANSIBLE_ASYNC_DIR`` as an task/play environment key is deprecated and will be
  removed in Ansible 2.12. You can achieve the same result by setting ``ansible_async_dir`` as a variable like::

      - name: run task with custom async directory
        command: sleep 5
        async: 10
        vars:
          ansible_aync_dir: /tmp/.ansible_async

* Plugin writers who need a ``FactCache`` object should be aware of two deprecations:

  1. The ``FactCache`` class has moved from ``ansible.plugins.cache.FactCache`` to
     ``ansible.vars.fact_cache.FactCache``.  This is because the ``FactCache`` is not part of the
     cache plugin API and cache plugin authors should not be subclassing it.  ``FactCache`` is still
     available from its old location but will issue a deprecation warning when used from there.  The
     old location will be removed in Ansible 2.12.

  2. The ``FactCache.update()`` method has been converted to follow the dict API.  It now takes a
     dictionary as its sole argument and updates itself with the dictionary's items.  The previous
     API where ``update()`` took a key and a value will now issue a deprecation warning and will be
     removed in 2.12.  If you need the old behaviour switch to ``FactCache.first_order_merge()``
     instead.

Modules
=======

Major changes in popular modules are detailed here

The exec wrapper that runs PowerShell modules has been changed to set ``$ErrorActionPreference = "Stop"`` globally.
This may mean that custom modules can fail if they implicitly relied on this behaviour. To get the old behaviour back,
add ``$ErrorActionPreference = "Continue"`` to the top of the module. This change was made to restore the old behaviour
of the EAP that was accidentally removed in a previous release and ensure that modules are more resiliant to errors
that may occur in execution.

PowerShell module options and option choices are currently case insensitive to what is defined in the module
specification. This behaviour is deprecated and a warning displayed to the user if a case insensitive match was found.
A future release of Ansible will make these checks case sensitive.

Modules removed
---------------

The following modules no longer exist:

* ec2_remote_facts
* azure
* cs_nic
* netscaler
* win_msi

Deprecation notices
-------------------

The following modules will be removed in Ansible 2.12. Please update your playbooks accordingly.

* ``foreman`` use <https://github.com/theforeman/foreman-ansible-modules> instead.
* ``katello`` use <https://github.com/theforeman/foreman-ansible-modules> instead.
* ``github_hooks`` use :ref:`github_webhook <github_webhook_module>` and :ref:`github_webhook_facts <github_webhook_facts_module>` instead.
* ``digital_ocean`` use :ref `digital_ocean_droplet <digital_ocean_droplet_module>` instead.
* ``gce`` use :ref `gce_compute_instance <gce_compute_instance_module>` instead.
* ``panos`` use `Ansible Galaxy role <https://galaxy.ansible.com/PaloAltoNetworks/paloaltonetworks>`_ instead.


Noteworthy module changes
-------------------------

* The ``foreman`` and ``katello`` modules have been deprecated in favor of a set of modules that are broken out per entity with better idempotency in mind.
* The ``foreman`` and ``katello`` modules replacement is officially part of the Foreman Community and supported there.
* The ``tower_credential`` module originally required the ``ssh_key_data`` to be the path to a ssh_key_file.
  In order to work like Tower/AWX, ``ssh_key_data`` now contains the content of the file.
  The previous behavior can be achieved with ``lookup('file', '/path/to/file')``.
* The ``win_scheduled_task`` module deprecated support for specifying a trigger repetition as a list and this format
  will be removed in Ansible 2.12. Instead specify the repetition as a dictionary value.

* The ``win_feature`` module has removed the deprecated ``restart_needed`` return value, use the standardised
  ``reboot_required`` value instead.

* The ``win_package`` module has removed the deprecated ``restart_required`` and ``exit_code`` return value, use the
  standardised ``reboot_required`` and ``rc`` value instead.

* The ``win_get_url`` module has removed the deprecated ``win_get_url`` return dictionary, contained values are
  returned directly.

* The ``win_get_url`` module has removed the deprecated ``skip_certificate_validation`` option, use the standardised
  ``validate_certs`` option instead.

* The ``vmware_local_role_facts`` module now returns a list of dicts instead of a dict of dicts for role information.

* If ``docker_network`` or ``docker_volume`` were called with ``diff: yes``, ``check_mode: yes`` or ``debug: yes``,
  a return value called ``diff`` was returned of type ``list``. To enable proper diff output, this was changed to
  type ``dict``; the original ``list`` is returned as ``diff.differences``.

* The ``na_ontap_cluster_peer`` module has replaced ``source_intercluster_lif`` and ``dest_intercluster_lif`` string options with
  ``source_intercluster_lifs`` and ``dest_intercluster_lifs`` list options

* The ``modprobe`` module now detects kernel builtins. Previously, attempting to remove (with ``state: absent``)
  a builtin kernel module succeeded without any error message because ``modprobe`` did not detect the module as
  ``present``. Now, ``modprobe`` will fail if a kernel module is builtin and ``state: absent`` (with an error message
  from the modprobe binary like ``modprobe: ERROR: Module nfs is builtin.``), and it will succeed without reporting
  changed if ``state: present``. Any playbooks that are using ``changed_when: no`` to mask this quirk can safely
  remove that workaround. To get the previous behavior when applying ``state: absent`` to a builtin kernel module,
  use ``failed_when: false`` or ``ignore_errors: true`` in your playbook.

* The ``digital_ocean`` module has been deprecated in favor of modules that do not require external dependencies.
  This allows for more flexibility and better module support.

* The ``docker_container`` module has deprecated the returned fact ``docker_container``. The same value is
  available as the returned variable ``docker_container``. The returned fact will be removed in Ansible 2.12.
* The ``docker_network`` module has deprecated the returned fact ``docker_container``. The same value is
  available as the returned variable ``docker_network``. The returned fact will be removed in Ansible 2.12.
* The ``docker_volume`` module has deprecated the returned fact ``docker_container``. The same value is
  available as the returned variable ``docker_volume``. The returned fact will be removed in Ansible 2.12.

* The ``docker_service`` module was renamed to :ref:`docker_compose <docker_compose_module>`.
* The renamed ``docker_compose`` module used to return one fact per service, named same as the service. A dictionary
  of these facts is returned as the regular return value ``service_facts``. The returned facts will be removed in
  Ansible 2.12.

* The ``docker_swarm_service`` module no longer sets a defaults for the following options:
    * ``user``. Before, the default was ``root``.
    * ``update_delay``. Before, the default was ``10``.
    * ``update_parallelism``. Before, the default was ``1``.

* ``vmware_vm_facts`` used to return dict of dict with virtual machine's facts. Ansible 2.8 and onwards will return list of dict with virtual machine's facts.
  Please see module ``vmware_vm_facts`` documentation for example.

* The ``panos`` modules have been deprecated in favor of using the Palo Alto Networks `Ansible Galaxy role
  <https://galaxy.ansible.com/PaloAltoNetworks/paloaltonetworks>`_.  Contributions to the role can be made
  `here <https://github.com/PaloAltoNetworks/ansible-pan>`_.


Plugins
=======

* Connection plugins have been standardized to allow use of ``ansible_<conn-type>_user``
  and ``ansible_<conn-type>_password`` variables.  Variables such as
  ``ansible_<conn-type>_pass`` and ``ansible_<conn-type>_username`` are treated
  with lower priority than the standardized names and may be deprecated in the
  future.  In general, the ``ansible_user`` and ``ansible_password`` vars should
  be used unless there is a reason to use the connection-specific variables.

* The ``powershell`` shell plugin now uses ``async_dir`` to define the async path for the results file and the default
  has changed to ``%USERPROFILE%\.ansible_async``. To control this path now, either set the ``ansible_async_dir``
  variable or the ``async_dir`` value in the ``powershell`` section of the config ini.

* Order of enabled inventory plugins (:ref:`INVENTORY_ENABLED`) has been updated, :ref:`auto <auto_inventory>` is now before :ref:`yaml <yaml_inventory>` and :ref:`ini <ini_inventory>`.

* The private ``_options`` attribute has been removed from the ``CallbackBase`` class of callback
  plugins.  If you have a third-party callback plugin which needs to access the command line arguments,
  use code like the following instead of trying to use ``self._options``:

  .. code-block:: python

     from ansible import context
     [...]
     tags = context.CLIARGS['tags']

  ``context.CLIARGS`` is a read-only dictionary so normal dictionary retrieval methods like
  ``CLIARGS.get('tags')`` and ``CLIARGS['tags']`` work as expected but you won't be able to modify
  the cli arguments at all.

* Play recap now counts ``ignored`` and ``rescued`` tasks as well as ``ok``, ``changed``, ``unreachable``, ``failed`` and ``skipped`` tasks, thanks to two additional stat counters in the ``default`` callback plugin. Tasks that fail and have ``ignore_errors: yes`` set are listed as ``ignored``. Tasks that fail and then execute a rescue section are listed as ``rescued``. Note that ``rescued`` tasks are no longer counted as ``failed`` as in Ansible 2.7 (and earlier).

* ``osx_say`` callback plugin was renamed into :ref:`say <say_callback>`.

Porting custom scripts
======================

Display class
-------------

As of Ansible 2.8, the ``Display`` class is now a "singleton". Instead of using ``__main__.display`` each file should
import and instantiate ``ansible.utils.display.Display`` on its own.

**OLD** In Ansible 2.7 (and earlier) the following was used to access the ``display`` object:

.. code-block:: python

   try:
       from __main__ import display
   except ImportError:
       from ansible.utils.display import Display
       display = Display()

**NEW** In Ansible 2.8 the following should be used:

.. code-block:: python

   from ansible.utils.display import Display
   display = Display()

Networking
==========

* The ``eos_config``, ``ios_config``, and ``nxos_config`` modules have removed the deprecated
  ``save`` and ``force`` parameters, use the ``save_when`` parameter to replicate their
  functionality.

* The ``nxos_vrf_af`` module has removed the ``safi`` paramter. This parameter was deprecated
  in Ansible 2.4 and has had no impact on the module since then.
