docs/docsite/rst/playbook_guide/playbooks_loops.rst, before:

.. _playbooks_loops:

*****
Loops
*****

Ansible offers the ``loop``, ``with_<lookup>``, and ``until`` keywords to execute a task multiple times. Examples of commonly-used loops include changing ownership on several files and/or directories with the :ref:`file module <file_module>`, creating multiple users with the :ref:`user module <user_module>`, and
repeating a polling step until a certain result is reached.

.. note::
   * We added ``loop`` in Ansible 2.5. It is not yet a full replacement for ``with_<lookup>``, but we recommend it for most use cases.
   * We have not deprecated the use of ``with_<lookup>`` - that syntax will still be valid for the foreseeable future.
   * We are looking to improve ``loop`` syntax - watch this page and the `changelog <https://github.com/ansible/ansible/tree/devel/changelogs>`_ for updates.

.. contents::
   :local:

Comparing ``loop`` and ``with_*``
=================================

* The ``with_<lookup>`` keywords rely on :ref:`lookup_plugins` - even  ``items`` is a lookup.
* The ``loop`` keyword is equivalent to ``with_list``, and is the best choice for simple loops.
* The ``loop`` keyword will not accept a string as input, see :ref:`query_vs_lookup`.
* Generally speaking, any use of ``with_*`` covered in :ref:`migrating_to_loop` can be updated to use ``loop``.
* Be careful when changing ``with_items`` to ``loop``, as ``with_items`` performed implicit single-level flattening. You may need to use ``flatten(1)`` with ``loop`` to match the exact outcome. For example, to get the same output as:

.. code-block:: yaml

  with_items:
    - 1
    - [2,3]
    - 4

you would need

.. code-block:: yaml+jinja

  loop: "{{ [1, [2, 3], 4] | flatten(1) }}"

* Any ``with_*`` statement that requires using ``lookup`` within a loop should not be converted to use the ``loop`` keyword. For example, instead of doing:

.. code-block:: yaml+jinja

  loop: "{{ lookup('fileglob', '*.txt', wantlist=True) }}"

it's cleaner to keep

.. code-block:: yaml

  with_fileglob: '*.txt'

.. _standard_loops:

Standard loops
==============

Iterating over a simple list
----------------------------

Repeated tasks can be written as standard loops over a simple list of strings. You can define the list directly in the task.

.. code-block:: yaml+jinja

    - name: Add several users
      ansible.builtin.user:
        name: "{{ item }}"
        state: present
        groups: "wheel"
      loop:
         - testuser1
         - testuser2

You can define the list in a variables file, or in the 'vars' section of your play, then refer to the name of the list in the task.

.. code-block:: yaml+jinja

    loop: "{{ somelist }}"

Either of these examples would be the equivalent of

.. code-block:: yaml

    - name: Add user testuser1
      ansible.builtin.user:
        name: "testuser1"
        state: present
        groups: "wheel"

    - name: Add user testuser2
      ansible.builtin.user:
        name: "testuser2"
        state: present
        groups: "wheel"

You can pass a list directly to a parameter for some plugins. Most of the packaging modules, like :ref:`yum <yum_module>` and :ref:`apt <apt_module>`, have this capability. When available, passing the list to a parameter is better than looping over the task. For example

.. code-block:: yaml+jinja

   - name: Optimal yum
     ansible.builtin.yum:
       name: "{{ list_of_packages }}"
       state: present

   - name: Non-optimal yum, slower and may cause issues with interdependencies
     ansible.builtin.yum:
       name: "{{ item }}"
       state: present
     loop: "{{ list_of_packages }}"

Check the :ref:`module documentation <modules_by_category>` to see if you can pass a list to any particular module's parameter(s).

Iterating over a list of hashes
-------------------------------

If you have a list of hashes, you can reference subkeys in a loop. For example:

.. code-block:: yaml+jinja

    - name: Add several users
      ansible.builtin.user:
        name: "{{ item.name }}"
        state: present
        groups: "{{ item.groups }}"
      loop:
        - { name: 'testuser1', groups: 'wheel' }
        - { name: 'testuser2', groups: 'root' }

When combining :ref:`conditionals <playbooks_conditionals>` with a loop, the ``when:`` statement is processed separately for each item.
See :ref:`the_when_statement` for examples.

Iterating over a dictionary
---------------------------

To loop over a dict, use the  :ref:`dict2items <dict_filter>`:

.. code-block:: yaml+jinja

    - name: Using dict2items
      ansible.builtin.debug:
        msg: "{{ item.key }} - {{ item.value }}"
      loop: "{{ tag_data | dict2items }}"
      vars:
        tag_data:
          Environment: dev
          Application: payment

Here, we are iterating over `tag_data` and printing the key and the value from it.

Registering variables with a loop
=================================

You can register the output of a loop as a variable. For example

.. code-block:: yaml+jinja

   - name: Register loop output as a variable
     ansible.builtin.shell: "echo {{ item }}"
     loop:
       - "one"
       - "two"
     register: echo

When you use ``register`` with a loop, the data structure placed in the variable will contain a ``results`` attribute that is a list of all responses from the module. This differs from the data structure returned when using ``register`` without a loop.

.. code-block:: json

    {
        "changed": true,
        "msg": "All items completed",
        "results": [
            {
                "changed": true,
                "cmd": "echo \"one\" ",
                "delta": "0:00:00.003110",
                "end": "2013-12-19 12:00:05.187153",
                "invocation": {
                    "module_args": "echo \"one\"",
                    "module_name": "shell"
                },
                "item": "one",
                "rc": 0,
                "start": "2013-12-19 12:00:05.184043",
                "stderr": "",
                "stdout": "one"
            },
            {
                "changed": true,
                "cmd": "echo \"two\" ",
                "delta": "0:00:00.002920",
                "end": "2013-12-19 12:00:05.245502",
                "invocation": {
                    "module_args": "echo \"two\"",
                    "module_name": "shell"
                },
                "item": "two",
                "rc": 0,
                "start": "2013-12-19 12:00:05.242582",
                "stderr": "",
                "stdout": "two"
            }
        ]
    }

Subsequent loops over the registered variable to inspect the results may look like

.. code-block:: yaml+jinja

    - name: Fail if return code is not 0
      ansible.builtin.fail:
        msg: "The command ({{ item.cmd }}) did not have a 0 return code"
      when: item.rc != 0
      loop: "{{ echo.results }}"

During iteration, the result of the current item will be placed in the variable.

.. code-block:: yaml+jinja

    - name: Place the result of the current item in the variable
      ansible.builtin.shell: echo "{{ item }}"
      loop:
        - one
        - two
      register: echo
      changed_when: echo.stdout != "one"

.. _complex_loops:

Complex loops
=============

Iterating over nested lists
---------------------------

You can use Jinja2 expressions to iterate over complex lists. For example, a loop can combine nested lists.

.. code-block:: yaml+jinja

    - name: Give users access to multiple databases
      community.mysql.mysql_user:
        name: "{{ item[0] }}"
        priv: "{{ item[1] }}.*:ALL"
        append_privs: true
        password: "foo"
      loop: "{{ ['alice', 'bob'] | product(['clientdb', 'employeedb', 'providerdb']) | list }}"


.. _do_until_loops:

Retrying a task until a condition is met
----------------------------------------

.. versionadded:: 1.4

You can use the ``until`` keyword to retry a task until a certain condition is met. Here's an example:

.. code-block:: yaml

    - name: Retry a task until a certain condition is met
      ansible.builtin.shell: /usr/bin/foo
      register: result
      until: result.stdout.find("all systems go") != -1
      retries: 5
      delay: 10

This task runs up to 5 times with a delay of 10 seconds between each attempt. If the result of any attempt has "all systems go" in its stdout, the task succeeds. The default value for "retries" is 3 and "delay" is 5.

To see the results of individual retries, run the play with ``-vv``.

When you run a task with ``until`` and register the result as a variable, the registered variable will include a key called "attempts", which records the number of the retries for the task.

.. note:: You must set the ``until`` parameter if you want a task to retry. If ``until`` is not defined, the value for the ``retries`` parameter is forced to 1.

Looping over inventory
----------------------

To loop over your inventory, or just a subset of it, you can use a regular ``loop`` with the ``ansible_play_batch`` or ``groups`` variables.

.. code-block:: yaml+jinja

    - name: Show all the hosts in the inventory
      ansible.builtin.debug:
        msg: "{{ item }}"
      loop: "{{ groups['all'] }}"

    - name: Show all the hosts in the current play
      ansible.builtin.debug:
        msg: "{{ item }}"
      loop: "{{ ansible_play_batch }}"

There is also a specific lookup plugin ``inventory_hostnames`` that can be used like this

.. code-block:: yaml+jinja

    - name: Show all the hosts in the inventory
      ansible.builtin.debug:
        msg: "{{ item }}"
      loop: "{{ query('inventory_hostnames', 'all') }}"

    - name: Show all the hosts matching the pattern, ie all but the group www
      ansible.builtin.debug:
        msg: "{{ item }}"
      loop: "{{ query('inventory_hostnames', 'all:!www') }}"

More information on the patterns can be found in :ref:`intro_patterns`.

.. _query_vs_lookup:

Ensuring list input for ``loop``: using ``query`` rather than ``lookup``
========================================================================

The ``loop`` keyword requires a list as input, but the ``lookup`` keyword returns a string of comma-separated values by default. Ansible 2.5 introduced a new Jinja2 function named :ref:`query <query>` that always returns a list, offering a simpler interface and more predictable output from lookup plugins when using the ``loop`` keyword.

You can force ``lookup`` to return a list to ``loop`` by using ``wantlist=True``, or you can use ``query`` instead.

The following two examples do the same thing.

.. code-block:: yaml+jinja

    loop: "{{ query('inventory_hostnames', 'all') }}"

    loop: "{{ lookup('inventory_hostnames', 'all', wantlist=True) }}"


.. _loop_control:

Adding controls to loops
========================
.. versionadded:: 2.1

The ``loop_control`` keyword lets you manage your loops in useful ways.

Limiting loop output with ``label``
-----------------------------------
.. versionadded:: 2.2

When looping over complex data structures, the console output of your task can be enormous. To limit the displayed output, use the ``label`` directive with ``loop_control``.

.. code-block:: yaml+jinja

    - name: Create servers
      digital_ocean:
        name: "{{ item.name }}"
        state: present
      loop:
        - name: server1
          disks: 3gb
          ram: 15Gb
          network:
            nic01: 100Gb
            nic02: 10Gb
            ...
      loop_control:
        label: "{{ item.name }}"

The output of this task will display just the ``name`` field for each ``item`` instead of the entire contents of the multi-line ``{{ item }}`` variable.

.. note:: This is for making console output more readable, not protecting sensitive data. If there is sensitive data in ``loop``, set ``no_log: yes`` on the task to prevent disclosure.

Pausing within a loop
---------------------
.. versionadded:: 2.2

To control the time (in seconds) between the execution of each item in a task loop, use the ``pause`` directive with ``loop_control``.

.. code-block:: yaml+jinja

    # main.yml
    - name: Create servers, pause 3s before creating next
      community.digitalocean.digital_ocean:
        name: "{{ item }}"
        state: present
      loop:
        - server1
        - server2
      loop_control:
        pause: 3

Tracking progress through a loop with ``index_var``
---------------------------------------------------
.. versionadded:: 2.5

To keep track of where you are in a loop, use the ``index_var`` directive with ``loop_control``. This directive specifies a variable name to contain the current loop index.

.. code-block:: yaml+jinja

  - name: Count our fruit
    ansible.builtin.debug:
      msg: "{{ item }} with index {{ my_idx }}"
    loop:
      - apple
      - banana
      - pear
    loop_control:
      index_var: my_idx

.. note:: `index_var` is 0 indexed.

Defining inner and outer variable names with ``loop_var``
---------------------------------------------------------
.. versionadded:: 2.1

You can nest two looping tasks using ``include_tasks``. However, by default Ansible sets the loop variable ``item`` for each loop. This means the inner, nested loop will overwrite the value of ``item`` from the outer loop.
You can specify the name of the variable for each loop using ``loop_var`` with ``loop_control``.

.. code-block:: yaml+jinja

    # main.yml
    - include_tasks: inner.yml
      loop:
        - 1
        - 2
        - 3
      loop_control:
        loop_var: outer_item

    # inner.yml
    - name: Print outer and inner items
      ansible.builtin.debug:
        msg: "outer item={{ outer_item }} inner item={{ item }}"
      loop:
        - a
        - b
        - c

.. note:: If Ansible detects that the current loop is using a variable which has already been defined, it will raise an error to fail the task.

Extended loop variables
-----------------------
.. versionadded:: 2.8

As of Ansible 2.8 you can get extended loop information using the ``extended`` option to loop control. This option will expose the following information.

==========================  ===========
Variable                    Description
--------------------------  -----------
``ansible_loop.allitems``   The list of all items in the loop
``ansible_loop.index``      The current iteration of the loop. (1 indexed)
``ansible_loop.index0``     The current iteration of the loop. (0 indexed)
``ansible_loop.revindex``   The number of iterations from the end of the loop (1 indexed)
``ansible_loop.revindex0``  The number of iterations from the end of the loop (0 indexed)
``ansible_loop.first``      ``True`` if first iteration
``ansible_loop.last``       ``True`` if last iteration
``ansible_loop.length``     The number of items in the loop
``ansible_loop.previtem``   The item from the previous iteration of the loop. Undefined during the first iteration.
``ansible_loop.nextitem``   The item from the following iteration of the loop. Undefined during the last iteration.
==========================  ===========

::

      loop_control:
        extended: true

.. note:: When using ``loop_control.extended`` more memory will be utilized on the control node. This is a result of ``ansible_loop.allitems`` containing a reference to the full loop data for every loop. When serializing the results for display in callback plugins within the main ansible process, these references may be dereferenced causing memory usage to increase.

.. versionadded:: 2.14

To disable the ``ansible_loop.allitems`` item, to reduce memory consumption, set ``loop_control.extended_allitems: no``.

::

      loop_control:
        extended: true
        extended_allitems: false

Accessing the name of your loop_var
-----------------------------------
.. versionadded:: 2.8

As of Ansible 2.8 you can get the name of the value provided to ``loop_control.loop_var`` using the ``ansible_loop_var`` variable

For role authors, writing roles that allow loops, instead of dictating the required ``loop_var`` value, you can gather the value through the following

.. code-block:: yaml+jinja

    "{{ lookup('vars', ansible_loop_var) }}"

.. _migrating_to_loop:

Migrating from with_X to loop
=============================

.. include:: shared_snippets/with2loop.txt

.. seealso::

   :ref:`about_playbooks`
       An introduction to playbooks
   :ref:`playbooks_reuse_roles`
       Playbook organization by roles
   :ref:`tips_and_tricks`
       Tips and tricks for playbooks
   :ref:`playbooks_conditionals`
       Conditional statements in playbooks
   :ref:`playbooks_variables`
       All about variables
   `User Mailing List <https://groups.google.com/group/ansible-devel>`_
       Have a question?  Stop by the google group!
   :ref:`communication_irc`
       How to join Ansible chat channels

Commit message:

document ability to specify `retries` without `until`

docs/docsite/rst/playbook_guide/playbooks_loops.rst, after:

.. _playbooks_loops:

*****
Loops
*****

Ansible offers the ``loop``, ``with_<lookup>``, and ``until`` keywords to execute a task multiple times. Examples of commonly-used loops include changing ownership on several files and/or directories with the :ref:`file module <file_module>`, creating multiple users with the :ref:`user module <user_module>`, and
repeating a polling step until a certain result is reached.

.. note::
   * We added ``loop`` in Ansible 2.5. It is not yet a full replacement for ``with_<lookup>``, but we recommend it for most use cases.
   * We have not deprecated the use of ``with_<lookup>`` - that syntax will still be valid for the foreseeable future.
   * We are looking to improve ``loop`` syntax - watch this page and the `changelog <https://github.com/ansible/ansible/tree/devel/changelogs>`_ for updates.

.. contents::
   :local:

Comparing ``loop`` and ``with_*``
=================================

* The ``with_<lookup>`` keywords rely on :ref:`lookup_plugins` - even  ``items`` is a lookup.
* The ``loop`` keyword is equivalent to ``with_list``, and is the best choice for simple loops.
* The ``loop`` keyword will not accept a string as input, see :ref:`query_vs_lookup`.
* Generally speaking, any use of ``with_*`` covered in :ref:`migrating_to_loop` can be updated to use ``loop``.
* Be careful when changing ``with_items`` to ``loop``, as ``with_items`` performed implicit single-level flattening. You may need to use ``flatten(1)`` with ``loop`` to match the exact outcome. For example, to get the same output as:

.. code-block:: yaml

  with_items:
    - 1
    - [2,3]
    - 4

you would need

.. code-block:: yaml+jinja

  loop: "{{ [1, [2, 3], 4] | flatten(1) }}"

* Any ``with_*`` statement that requires using ``lookup`` within a loop should not be converted to use the ``loop`` keyword. For example, instead of doing:

.. code-block:: yaml+jinja

  loop: "{{ lookup('fileglob', '*.txt', wantlist=True) }}"

it's cleaner to keep

.. code-block:: yaml

  with_fileglob: '*.txt'

.. _standard_loops:

Standard loops
==============

Iterating over a simple list
----------------------------

Repeated tasks can be written as standard loops over a simple list of strings. You can define the list directly in the task.

.. code-block:: yaml+jinja

    - name: Add several users
      ansible.builtin.user:
        name: "{{ item }}"
        state: present
        groups: "wheel"
      loop:
         - testuser1
         - testuser2

You can define the list in a variables file, or in the 'vars' section of your play, then refer to the name of the list in the task.

.. code-block:: yaml+jinja

    loop: "{{ somelist }}"

Either of these examples would be the equivalent of

.. code-block:: yaml

    - name: Add user testuser1
      ansible.builtin.user:
        name: "testuser1"
        state: present
        groups: "wheel"

    - name: Add user testuser2
      ansible.builtin.user:
        name: "testuser2"
        state: present
        groups: "wheel"

You can pass a list directly to a parameter for some plugins. Most of the packaging modules, like :ref:`yum <yum_module>` and :ref:`apt <apt_module>`, have this capability. When available, passing the list to a parameter is better than looping over the task. For example

.. code-block:: yaml+jinja

   - name: Optimal yum
     ansible.builtin.yum:
       name: "{{ list_of_packages }}"
       state: present

   - name: Non-optimal yum, slower and may cause issues with interdependencies
     ansible.builtin.yum:
       name: "{{ item }}"
       state: present
     loop: "{{ list_of_packages }}"

Check the :ref:`module documentation <modules_by_category>` to see if you can pass a list to any particular module's parameter(s).

Iterating over a list of hashes
-------------------------------

If you have a list of hashes, you can reference subkeys in a loop. For example:

.. code-block:: yaml+jinja

    - name: Add several users
      ansible.builtin.user:
        name: "{{ item.name }}"
        state: present
        groups: "{{ item.groups }}"
      loop:
        - { name: 'testuser1', groups: 'wheel' }
        - { name: 'testuser2', groups: 'root' }

When combining :ref:`conditionals <playbooks_conditionals>` with a loop, the ``when:`` statement is processed separately for each item.
See :ref:`the_when_statement` for examples.

Iterating over a dictionary
---------------------------

To loop over a dict, use the  :ref:`dict2items <dict_filter>`:

.. code-block:: yaml+jinja

    - name: Using dict2items
      ansible.builtin.debug:
        msg: "{{ item.key }} - {{ item.value }}"
      loop: "{{ tag_data | dict2items }}"
      vars:
        tag_data:
          Environment: dev
          Application: payment

Here, we are iterating over `tag_data` and printing the key and the value from it.

Registering variables with a loop
=================================

You can register the output of a loop as a variable. For example

.. code-block:: yaml+jinja

   - name: Register loop output as a variable
     ansible.builtin.shell: "echo {{ item }}"
     loop:
       - "one"
       - "two"
     register: echo

When you use ``register`` with a loop, the data structure placed in the variable will contain a ``results`` attribute that is a list of all responses from the module. This differs from the data structure returned when using ``register`` without a loop.

.. code-block:: json

    {
        "changed": true,
        "msg": "All items completed",
        "results": [
            {
                "changed": true,
                "cmd": "echo \"one\" ",
                "delta": "0:00:00.003110",
                "end": "2013-12-19 12:00:05.187153",
                "invocation": {
                    "module_args": "echo \"one\"",
                    "module_name": "shell"
                },
                "item": "one",
                "rc": 0,
                "start": "2013-12-19 12:00:05.184043",
                "stderr": "",
                "stdout": "one"
            },
            {
                "changed": true,
                "cmd": "echo \"two\" ",
                "delta": "0:00:00.002920",
                "end": "2013-12-19 12:00:05.245502",
                "invocation": {
                    "module_args": "echo \"two\"",
                    "module_name": "shell"
                },
                "item": "two",
                "rc": 0,
                "start": "2013-12-19 12:00:05.242582",
                "stderr": "",
                "stdout": "two"
            }
        ]
    }

Subsequent loops over the registered variable to inspect the results may look like

.. code-block:: yaml+jinja

    - name: Fail if return code is not 0
      ansible.builtin.fail:
        msg: "The command ({{ item.cmd }}) did not have a 0 return code"
      when: item.rc != 0
      loop: "{{ echo.results }}"

During iteration, the result of the current item will be placed in the variable.

.. code-block:: yaml+jinja

    - name: Place the result of the current item in the variable
      ansible.builtin.shell: echo "{{ item }}"
      loop:
        - one
        - two
      register: echo
      changed_when: echo.stdout != "one"

.. _complex_loops:

Complex loops
=============

Iterating over nested lists
---------------------------

You can use Jinja2 expressions to iterate over complex lists. For example, a loop can combine nested lists.

.. code-block:: yaml+jinja

    - name: Give users access to multiple databases
      community.mysql.mysql_user:
        name: "{{ item[0] }}"
        priv: "{{ item[1] }}.*:ALL"
        append_privs: true
        password: "foo"
      loop: "{{ ['alice', 'bob'] | product(['clientdb', 'employeedb', 'providerdb']) | list }}"


.. _do_until_loops:

Retrying a task until a condition is met
----------------------------------------

.. versionadded:: 1.4

You can use the ``until`` keyword to retry a task until a certain condition is met. Here's an example:

.. code-block:: yaml

    - name: Retry a task until a certain condition is met
      ansible.builtin.shell: /usr/bin/foo
      register: result
      until: result.stdout.find("all systems go") != -1
      retries: 5
      delay: 10

This task runs up to 5 times with a delay of 10 seconds between each attempt. If the result of any attempt has "all systems go" in its stdout, the task succeeds. The default value for "retries" is 3 and "delay" is 5.

To see the results of individual retries, run the play with ``-vv``.

When you run a task with ``until`` and register the result as a variable, the registered variable will include a key called "attempts", which records the number of the retries for the task.

.. note:: You must set the ``until`` parameter if you want a task to retry. If ``until`` is not defined, the value for the ``retries`` parameter is forced to 1.

.. versionadded:: 2.14

In the common case of retrying a task until it is successful, you can use ``retries`` without ``until``. For example,

.. code-block:: yaml

  - name: Retry a task until successful
    ansible.builtin.shell: /usr/bin/foo
    retries: 5

Looping over inventory
----------------------

To loop over your inventory, or just a subset of it, you can use a regular ``loop`` with the ``ansible_play_batch`` or ``groups`` variables.

.. code-block:: yaml+jinja

    - name: Show all the hosts in the inventory
      ansible.builtin.debug:
        msg: "{{ item }}"
      loop: "{{ groups['all'] }}"

    - name: Show all the hosts in the current play
      ansible.builtin.debug:
        msg: "{{ item }}"
      loop: "{{ ansible_play_batch }}"

There is also a specific lookup plugin ``inventory_hostnames`` that can be used like this

.. code-block:: yaml+jinja

    - name: Show all the hosts in the inventory
      ansible.builtin.debug:
        msg: "{{ item }}"
      loop: "{{ query('inventory_hostnames', 'all') }}"

    - name: Show all the hosts matching the pattern, ie all but the group www
      ansible.builtin.debug:
        msg: "{{ item }}"
      loop: "{{ query('inventory_hostnames', 'all:!www') }}"

More information on the patterns can be found in :ref:`intro_patterns`.

.. _query_vs_lookup:

Ensuring list input for ``loop``: using ``query`` rather than ``lookup``
========================================================================

The ``loop`` keyword requires a list as input, but the ``lookup`` keyword returns a string of comma-separated values by default. Ansible 2.5 introduced a new Jinja2 function named :ref:`query <query>` that always returns a list, offering a simpler interface and more predictable output from lookup plugins when using the ``loop`` keyword.

You can force ``lookup`` to return a list to ``loop`` by using ``wantlist=True``, or you can use ``query`` instead.

The following two examples do the same thing.

.. code-block:: yaml+jinja

    loop: "{{ query('inventory_hostnames', 'all') }}"

    loop: "{{ lookup('inventory_hostnames', 'all', wantlist=True) }}"


.. _loop_control:

Adding controls to loops
========================
.. versionadded:: 2.1

The ``loop_control`` keyword lets you manage your loops in useful ways.

Limiting loop output with ``label``
-----------------------------------
.. versionadded:: 2.2

When looping over complex data structures, the console output of your task can be enormous. To limit the displayed output, use the ``label`` directive with ``loop_control``.

.. code-block:: yaml+jinja

    - name: Create servers
      digital_ocean:
        name: "{{ item.name }}"
        state: present
      loop:
        - name: server1
          disks: 3gb
          ram: 15Gb
          network:
            nic01: 100Gb
            nic02: 10Gb
            ...
      loop_control:
        label: "{{ item.name }}"

The output of this task will display just the ``name`` field for each ``item`` instead of the entire contents of the multi-line ``{{ item }}`` variable.

.. note:: This is for making console output more readable, not protecting sensitive data. If there is sensitive data in ``loop``, set ``no_log: yes`` on the task to prevent disclosure.

Pausing within a loop
---------------------
.. versionadded:: 2.2

To control the time (in seconds) between the execution of each item in a task loop, use the ``pause`` directive with ``loop_control``.

.. code-block:: yaml+jinja

    # main.yml
    - name: Create servers, pause 3s before creating next
      community.digitalocean.digital_ocean:
        name: "{{ item }}"
        state: present
      loop:
        - server1
        - server2
      loop_control:
        pause: 3

Tracking progress through a loop with ``index_var``
---------------------------------------------------
.. versionadded:: 2.5

To keep track of where you are in a loop, use the ``index_var`` directive with ``loop_control``. This directive specifies a variable name to contain the current loop index.

.. code-block:: yaml+jinja

  - name: Count our fruit
    ansible.builtin.debug:
      msg: "{{ item }} with index {{ my_idx }}"
    loop:
      - apple
      - banana
      - pear
    loop_control:
      index_var: my_idx

.. note:: `index_var` is 0 indexed.

Defining inner and outer variable names with ``loop_var``
---------------------------------------------------------
.. versionadded:: 2.1

You can nest two looping tasks using ``include_tasks``. However, by default Ansible sets the loop variable ``item`` for each loop. This means the inner, nested loop will overwrite the value of ``item`` from the outer loop.
You can specify the name of the variable for each loop using ``loop_var`` with ``loop_control``.

.. code-block:: yaml+jinja

    # main.yml
    - include_tasks: inner.yml
      loop:
        - 1
        - 2
        - 3
      loop_control:
        loop_var: outer_item

    # inner.yml
    - name: Print outer and inner items
      ansible.builtin.debug:
        msg: "outer item={{ outer_item }} inner item={{ item }}"
      loop:
        - a
        - b
        - c

.. note:: If Ansible detects that the current loop is using a variable which has already been defined, it will raise an error to fail the task.

Extended loop variables
-----------------------
.. versionadded:: 2.8

As of Ansible 2.8 you can get extended loop information using the ``extended`` option to loop control. This option will expose the following information.

==========================  ===========
Variable                    Description
--------------------------  -----------
``ansible_loop.allitems``   The list of all items in the loop
``ansible_loop.index``      The current iteration of the loop. (1 indexed)
``ansible_loop.index0``     The current iteration of the loop. (0 indexed)
``ansible_loop.revindex``   The number of iterations from the end of the loop (1 indexed)
``ansible_loop.revindex0``  The number of iterations from the end of the loop (0 indexed)
``ansible_loop.first``      ``True`` if first iteration
``ansible_loop.last``       ``True`` if last iteration
``ansible_loop.length``     The number of items in the loop
``ansible_loop.previtem``   The item from the previous iteration of the loop. Undefined during the first iteration.
``ansible_loop.nextitem``   The item from the following iteration of the loop. Undefined during the last iteration.
==========================  ===========

::

      loop_control:
        extended: true

.. note:: When using ``loop_control.extended`` more memory will be utilized on the control node. This is a result of ``ansible_loop.allitems`` containing a reference to the full loop data for every loop. When serializing the results for display in callback plugins within the main ansible process, these references may be dereferenced causing memory usage to increase.

.. versionadded:: 2.14

To disable the ``ansible_loop.allitems`` item, to reduce memory consumption, set ``loop_control.extended_allitems: no``.

::

      loop_control:
        extended: true
        extended_allitems: false

Accessing the name of your loop_var
-----------------------------------
.. versionadded:: 2.8

As of Ansible 2.8 you can get the name of the value provided to ``loop_control.loop_var`` using the ``ansible_loop_var`` variable

For role authors, writing roles that allow loops, instead of dictating the required ``loop_var`` value, you can gather the value through the following

.. code-block:: yaml+jinja

    "{{ lookup('vars', ansible_loop_var) }}"

.. _migrating_to_loop:

Migrating from with_X to loop
=============================

.. include:: shared_snippets/with2loop.txt

.. seealso::

   :ref:`about_playbooks`
       An introduction to playbooks
   :ref:`playbooks_reuse_roles`
       Playbook organization by roles
   :ref:`tips_and_tricks`
       Tips and tricks for playbooks
   :ref:`playbooks_conditionals`
       Conditional statements in playbooks
   :ref:`playbooks_variables`
       All about variables
   `User Mailing List <https://groups.google.com/group/ansible-devel>`_
       Have a question?  Stop by the google group!
   :ref:`communication_irc`
       How to join Ansible chat channels
