docs/docsite/README.md, before:

Homepage and documentation source for Ansible
=============================================

This project hosts the source behind [docs.ansible.com](http://docs.ansible.com/)

Contributions to the documentation are welcome.  To make changes, submit a pull request
that changes the reStructuredText files in the "rst/" directory only, and the core team can
do a docs build and push the static files. 

If you wish to verify output from the markup
such as link references, you may install sphinx and build the documentation by running
`make viewdocs` from the `ansible/docsite` directory.  

To include module documentation you'll need to run `make webdocs` at the top level of the repository.  The generated
html files are in docsite/htmlout/.

If you do not want to learn the reStructuredText format, you can also [file issues] about
documentation problems on the Ansible GitHub project.

Note that module documentation can actually be [generated from a DOCUMENTATION docstring][module-docs]
in the modules directory, so corrections to modules written as such need to be made
in the module source, rather than in docsite source.

To install sphinx and the required theme, install pip and then "pip install sphinx sphinx_rtd_theme"

[file issues]: https://github.com/ansible/ansible/issues
[module-docs]: http://docs.ansible.com/developing_modules.html#documenting-your-module

Commit message:

Implement ability to limit module documentation building:
- Added new option to plugin_formatter.py to support passing-in a list of
  modules for which the documentation should be built.
- Updated docuemtnation Makefile to allow specifying list of modules via
  environment variables (defaulting to all modules).
- Update instructions for building documentation and module development to
  include commands and description of limiting module documentation builds.

docs/docsite/README.md, after:

Homepage and documentation source for Ansible
=============================================

This project hosts the source behind [docs.ansible.com](http://docs.ansible.com/)

Contributions to the documentation are welcome.  To make changes, submit a pull request
that changes the reStructuredText files in the "rst/" directory only, and the core team can
do a docs build and push the static files. 

If you wish to verify output from the markup
such as link references, you may install sphinx and build the documentation by running
`make viewdocs` from the `ansible/docsite` directory.  

To include module documentation you'll need to run `make webdocs` at the top level of the repository.  The generated
html files are in docsite/htmlout/.

To limit module documentation building to a specific module, run `MODULES=NAME
make webdocs` instead. This should make testing module documentation syntax much
faster. Instead of a single module, you can also specify a comma-separated list
of modules, or keywords `all` and `none`.

If you do not want to learn the reStructuredText format, you can also [file issues] about
documentation problems on the Ansible GitHub project.

Note that module documentation can actually be [generated from a DOCUMENTATION docstring][module-docs]
in the modules directory, so corrections to modules written as such need to be made
in the module source, rather than in docsite source.

To install sphinx and the required theme, install pip and then "pip install sphinx sphinx_rtd_theme"

[file issues]: https://github.com/ansible/ansible/issues
[module-docs]: http://docs.ansible.com/developing_modules.html#documenting-your-module
