docs/docsite/rst/modules_support.rst, before:

Module Support
--------------

.. toctree:: :maxdepth: 1

Ansible has many modules, but not all of them are maintained by the core project committers. Each module should have associated metadata that indicates which of the following categories they fall into. This should be visible in each module's documentation.

Documentation updates for each module can also be edited directly in the module and by submitting a pull request to the module source code; just look for the "DOCUMENTATION" block in the source tree.

If you believe you have found a bug in a module and are already running the latest stable or development version of Ansible, first look in the `issue tracker at github.com/ansible/ansible <https://github.com/ansible/ansible/issues>`_ to see if a bug has already been filed.  If not, we would be grateful if you would file one.

Should you have a question rather than a bug report, inquiries are welcome on the `ansible-project google group <https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/ansible-project>`_ or on Ansible's "#ansible" channel, located on irc.freenode.net.

For development-oriented topics, use the `ansible-devel google group <https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/ansible-devel>`_  or Ansible's ``#ansible`` and ``#ansible-devel`` channels, located on irc.freenode.net.  You should also read :doc:`community`, :doc:`dev_guide/testing` and :doc:`dev_guide/developing_modules`.

The modules are hosted on GitHub in a subdirectory of the `ansible <https://github.com/ansible/ansible/tree/devel/lib/ansible/modules>`_ repo.

Core
````

These are :doc:`modules maintained by the Ansible Core Team<core_maintained>`
and will always ship with Ansible itself.

Network
```````

These are :doc:`modules maintained by the Ansible Network Team<network_maintained>` in a relationship
similar to how the Ansible Core Team maintains the Core modules.

Certified
`````````

Some examples of :doc:`Certified Modules<partner_maintained>` are those submitted by other companies. Maintainers of these types of modules must watch for any issues reported or pull requests raised against the module.

The Ansible Core Team will review all modules becoming certified.  Core committers will review proposed changes to existing Certified Modules once the community maintainers of the module have approved the changes. Core committers will also ensure that any issues that arise due to Ansible engine changes will be remediated.
Also, it is strongly recommended (but not presently required) for these types of modules to have unit tests.

These modules are currently shipped with Ansible, but might be shipped separately in the future.

Community
`````````

These are :doc:`modules maintained by the Ansible Community<community_maintained>`.  They **are not** supported by the Ansible Core Team or by companies/partners associated to the module.

They are still fully usable, but the response rate to issues is purely up to the community.  Best effort support will be provided but is not covered under any support contracts.

These modules are currently shipped with Ansible, but will most likely be shipped separately in the future.


.. seealso::

   :doc:`intro_adhoc`
       Examples of using modules in /usr/bin/ansible
   :doc:`playbooks`
       Examples of using modules with /usr/bin/ansible-playbook
   :doc:`dev_guide/developing_modules`
       How to write your own modules
   :doc:`dev_guide/developing_api`
       Examples of using modules with the Python API
   `Mailing List <http://groups.google.com/group/ansible-project>`_
       Questions? Help? Ideas?  Stop by the list on Google Groups
   `irc.freenode.net <http://irc.freenode.net>`_
       #ansible IRC chat channel

Commit message:

updated modules support page with new information

docs/docsite/rst/modules_support.rst, after:

Module Maintenance & Support
--------------

.. toctree:: :maxdepth: 1

To help in identifying maintainers and understanding how each of the included modules are officially supported, each module now has associated metadata that provides additional clarity for maintenance and support.

Core
````

:doc:`Core modules are maintained by the Ansible Engineering Team<core_maintained>`.
These modules are integral to the basic foundations of the Ansible distribution.

Network
```````

:doc:`Network modules are maintained by the Ansible Network Team<network_maintained>`. Please note, there are `additional networking modules <list_of_network_modules>` that are categorized as Certified or Community not maintained by Ansible.


Certified
`````````

Certified modules are part of a future planned program currently in development.

Community
`````````

:doc:`Community modules are submitted and maintained by the Ansible community<community_maintained>`.  These modules are not maintained by Ansible, and are included as a convenience.

Issue Reporting
```````````````

If you believe you have found a bug in a module and are already running the latest stable or development version of Ansible, first look at the `issue tracker in the Ansible repo <https://github.com/ansible/ansible/issues>` to see if an issue has already been filed. If not, please file one.

Should you have a question rather than a bug report, inquiries are welcome on the `ansible-project Google group <https://groups.google.com/forum/#%21forum/ansible-project>` or on Ansible’s “#ansible” channel, located on irc.freenode.net.

For development-oriented topics, use the `ansible-devel Google group <https://groups.google.com/forum/#%21forum/ansible-devel>` or Ansible’s #ansible and #ansible-devel channels, located on irc.freenode.net. You should also read `Community Information & Contributing <community>`, `Testing Ansible <testing>`, and `Developing Modules <developing_modules>`.

The modules are hosted on GitHub in a subdirectory of the `Ansible <https://github.com/ansible/ansible/tree/devel/lib/ansible/modules>` repo.

NOTE: If you have a Red Hat Ansible Engine product subscription, please follow the standard issue reporting process via the Red Hat Customer Portal.

Support
```````

For more information on how included Ansible modules are supported by Red Hat,
please refer to the following `knowledgebase article <https://access.redhat.com/articles/3166901>` as well as other resources on the `Red Hat Customer Portal <https://access.redhat.com/>`.

.. seealso::

   :doc:`intro_adhoc`
       Examples of using modules in /usr/bin/ansible
   :doc:`playbooks`
       Examples of using modules with /usr/bin/ansible-playbook
   :doc:`dev_guide/developing_modules`
       How to write your own modules
   :doc:`dev_guide/developing_api`
       Examples of using modules with the Python API
   `Mailing List <http://groups.google.com/group/ansible-project>`_
       Questions? Help? Ideas?  Stop by the list on Google Groups
   `irc.freenode.net <http://irc.freenode.net>`_
       #ansible IRC chat channel
