docs/docsite/rst/windows_faq.rst, before:

Windows Fequently Asked Questions
=================================

Here are some commonly asked questions in regards to Ansible and Windows and
their answers.

.. note:: These are questions around managing Windows servers with Ansible,
    questions about Ansible itself can be found at the `_faq` page.

.. _faq: http://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/faq.html

TODO: add more questions and expand on answers

.. _xp_2003_support:

Does Ansible work with Windows XP and Server 2003
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

No

.. _controller_on_windows:

Can Ansible run on Windows?
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++

No

.. _ssh_keys_authentication

Can I use SSH keys to Authenticate?
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

See certificate auth

.. _local_run_does_not_work_under_winrm

I can run this command locally but it does not work under Ansible?
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++

See WinRM limitations

.. _windows_modules

What modules can I use?
+++++++++++++++++++++++

.. _python_modules_windows

Can I run Python modules?
+++++++++++++++++++++++++

No

.. _windows_and_ssh

Can I connect over SSH?
+++++++++++++++++++++++

No

Commit message:

Added info about WinRM and started the usage page

docs/docsite/rst/windows_faq.rst, after:

Windows Fequently Asked Questions
=================================

Here are some commonly asked questions in regards to Ansible and Windows and
their answers.

.. note:: These are questions around managing Windows servers with Ansible,
    questions about Ansible itself can be found at the faq_ page.

.. _faq: http://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/faq.html

TODO: add more questions and expand on answers

Does Ansible work with Windows XP and Server 2003
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
No

Can Ansible run on Windows?
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++
No

Can I use SSH keys to Authenticate?
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
See certificate auth

I can run this command locally but it does not work under Ansible?
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
See WinRM limitations

This program won't install with Ansible
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
See above

What modules can I use?
+++++++++++++++++++++++
Module list

Can I run Python modules?
+++++++++++++++++++++++++
No

Can I connect over SSH?
+++++++++++++++++++++++
No
