This role includes the following suites of tests:

- `test_basic`: these tests can be run without admin access.  They do
  not assume that `neutron` is available.  These tests are enabled if
  if `basic` is in `openstack_tests`, and are enabled by default.

- `test_cinder`: these tests will be run in conjunction with the
  `test_basic` tests if `cinder` is in `openstack_tests`.  These tests
  are enabled by default.

- `test_admin`: these tests require administrative privileges.  These
  tests are *disabled* by default, but can be enabled by adding
  `admin` to `openstack_tests`.

- `test_neutron`: these tests require neutron. They do not require
  administrative privileges.  They are disabled by default, but can be
  enabled by adding `neutron` to `openstack_tests`.

## Configuration

- `resource_prefix` -- this prefix will be prepended to any resource
  names generated by the tests.

- `openstack_private_cidr` -- this will be used as the CIDR range for
  the private network created by the neutron tests.

- `openstack_dns_nameservers` -- this will be as the DNS nameservers
  for the private subnet created by the neutron tests.

- `openstack_cirros_url` -- this is the URL used to fetch a Cirros
  image.

- `openstack_tmpdir` -- this directory will be used as a temporary
  directory for disk images and generated files.

- `openstack_debug` -- if `true`, enable debug output from the tests.

- `openstack_flavor` -- flavor to use for creating nova servers

- `openstack_private_network` -- name of an existing private (tenant)
  network to use when creating nova servers.

- `openstack_tests` -- a list of test suites to run; can container
  zero or more of:

    - `basic`
    - `cinder` (requires `basic`)
    - `neutron`
    - `admin`

## Coverage

This table presents a short summary of which modules have tests.
"Having tests" does not imply that the test coverage is comprehensive.
Or even good.

| Module                 | Has tests? |
------------------------ | ------------
| os_auth                |            |
| os_client_config       |            |
| os_floating_ip         |            |
| os_image               | X          |
| os_image_facts         |            |
| os_ironic              |            |
| os_ironic_node         |            |
| os_keypair             | X          |
| os_network             | X          |
| os_networks_facts      |            |
| os_nova_flavor         | X          |
| os_object              |            |
| os_port                | X          |
| os_router              | X          |
| os_security_group      | X          |
| os_security_group_rule | X          |
| os_server              | X          |
| os_server_actions      |            |
| os_server_facts        |            |
| os_server_volume       | X          |
| os_subnet              | X          |
| os_subnets_facts       |            |
| os_user                | X          |
| os_user_group          |            |
| os_volume              | X          |
