docs/docsite/rst/dev_guide/testing_units.rst, before:

**********
Unit Tests
**********

Unit tests are small isolated tests that target a specific library, or module.  Unit tests
in Ansible are currently the only way of driving tests from python within Ansible's
continuous integration process which means that in some circumstances the tests may be a
bit wider than just units.

.. contents:: Topics

Available Tests
===============

Unit tests can be found in `test/units
<https://github.com/ansible/ansible/tree/devel/test/units>`_, notice that the directory
structure matches that of ``lib/ansible/``

Running Tests
=============

Unit tests can be run across the whole code base by doing:

.. code:: shell

    cd /path/to/ansible/source
    source hacking/env-setup
    ansible-test units --tox

Against a single file by doing:

.. code:: shell

   ansible-test units --tox apt

Or against a specific Python version by doing:

.. code:: shell

   ansible-test units --tox --python 2.7 apt


For advanced usage see the online help::

   ansible-test units --help


Installing dependencies
=======================

``ansible-test`` has a number of dependencies , for ``units`` tests we suggest using ``tox``

The dependencies can be installed using the ``--requirements`` argument, which will
install all the required dependencies needed for unit tests. For example:

.. code:: shell

   ansible-test units --tox --python 2.7 --requirements apache2_module


.. note:: tox version requirement

   When using ``ansible-test`` with ``--tox`` requires tox >= 2.5.0


The full list of requirements can be found at `test/runner/requirements
<https://github.com/ansible/ansible/tree/devel/test/runner/requirements>`_. Requirements
files are named after their respective commands. See also the `constraints
<https://github.com/ansible/ansible/blob/devel/test/runner/requirements/constraints.txt>`_
applicable to all commands.


Extending unit tests
====================


.. warning:: What a unit test isn't

   If you start writing a test that requires external services then
   you may be writing an integration test, rather than a unit test.


Structuring Unit Tests
``````````````````````

Ansible drives unit tests through pytest
(https://docs.pytest.org/en/latest/) this means that tests can either
be written as simple functions which are included in any file name
like test_<something>.py.::

  #this function will be called simply because it is called test_*()

  def test_add()
      a = 10
      b = 23
      c = 33
      assert a + b = c
    
or as classes::

  import unittest:
      
  class AddTester(unittest.TestCase)
      
      def SetUp()
          self.a = 10
          self.b = 23
 
      # this function will 
      def test_add()
        c = 33
        assert self.a + self.b = c

     # this function will 
      def test_subtract()
        c = -13
        assert self.a - self.b = c

Both methods work fine in most circumstances; the function based interface is simpler and
quicker and so that's probably where you should start when you are just trying to add a
few basic tests for a module.  The class based test allows more tidy set up and tear down
of pre-requisites so if you have many test cases for your module you may want to refactor
to use that.  Assertions using the simple assert function inside the tests will.

A number of the unit test suites include functions that are shared
between several modules, especially in the networking arena.  In these
cases a file is created in the same directory which is then included
directly.


module test case common code
````````````````````````````

Keep common code as specific as possible within the `test/units/` directory structure. For
example, if it's specific to testing Amazon modules, it should be in
`test/units/modules/cloud/amazon/`. Don't import common unit test code from directories
outside the current or parent directories.

Don't import other unit tests from a unit test. Any common code should be in dedicated
files that aren't themselves tests.


Fixtures files
``````````````

To mock out fetching results from devices, you can use ``fixtures`` to read in
pre-generated data.

Text files live in ``test/units/modules/network/PLATFORM/fixtures/``

Data is loaded using the ``load_fixture`` method

See `eos_banner test
<https://github.com/ansible/ansible/blob/devel/test/units/modules/network/eos/test_eos_banner.py>`_
for a practical example.

Code Coverage
`````````````
Most ``ansible-test`` commands allow you to collect code coverage, this is particularly
useful when to indicate where to extend testing.

To collect coverage data add the ``--coverage`` argument to your ``ansible-test`` command line:

.. code:: shell

   ansible-test units --coverage apt
   ansible-test coverage html

Results will be written to ``test/results/reports/coverage/index.html``

Reports can be generated in several different formats:

* ``ansible-test coverage report`` - Console report.
* ``ansible-test coverage html`` - HTML report.
* ``ansible-test coverage xml`` - XML report.

To clear data between test runs, use the ``ansible-test coverage erase`` command. For a full list of features see the online help::

   ansible-test coverage --help


.. seealso::

   :doc:`testing_units_modules`
       Special considerations for unit testing modules
   `Python 3 documentation - 26.4. unittest — Unit testing framework <https://docs.python.org/3/library/unittest.html>`_
       The documentation of the unittest framework in python 3 
   `Python 2 documentation - 25.3. unittest — Unit testing framework <https://docs.python.org/3/library/unittest.html>`_
       The documentation of the earliest supported unittest framework - from Python 2.6
   `pytest: helps you write better programs <https://docs.pytest.org/en/latest/>`_
       The documentation of pytest - the framework actually used to run Ansible unit tests

Commit message:

unit test documentation - point to online coverage reports & fix bad spaces

docs/docsite/rst/dev_guide/testing_units.rst, after:

**********
Unit Tests
**********

Unit tests are small isolated tests that target a specific library, or module.  Unit tests
in Ansible are currently the only way of driving tests from python within Ansible's
continuous integration process which means that in some circumstances the tests may be a
bit wider than just units.

.. contents:: Topics

Available Tests
===============

Unit tests can be found in `test/units
<https://github.com/ansible/ansible/tree/devel/test/units>`_, notice that the directory
structure matches that of ``lib/ansible/``

Running Tests
=============

The Ansible unit tests can be run across the whole code base by doing:

.. code:: shell

    cd /path/to/ansible/source
    source hacking/env-setup
    ansible-test units --tox

Against a single file by doing:

.. code:: shell

   ansible-test units --tox apt

Or against a specific Python version by doing:

.. code:: shell

   ansible-test units --tox --python 2.7 apt


For advanced usage see the online help::

   ansible-test units --help


Installing dependencies
=======================

``ansible-test`` has a number of dependencies , for ``units`` tests we suggest using ``tox``

The dependencies can be installed using the ``--requirements`` argument, which will
install all the required dependencies needed for unit tests. For example:

.. code:: shell

   ansible-test units --tox --python 2.7 --requirements apache2_module


.. note:: tox version requirement

   When using ``ansible-test`` with ``--tox`` requires tox >= 2.5.0


The full list of requirements can be found at `test/runner/requirements
<https://github.com/ansible/ansible/tree/devel/test/runner/requirements>`_. Requirements
files are named after their respective commands. See also the `constraints
<https://github.com/ansible/ansible/blob/devel/test/runner/requirements/constraints.txt>`_
applicable to all commands.


Extending unit tests
====================


.. warning:: What a unit test isn't

   If you start writing a test that requires external services then
   you may be writing an integration test, rather than a unit test.


Structuring Unit Tests
``````````````````````

Ansible drives unit tests through pytest
(https://docs.pytest.org/en/latest/) this means that tests can either
be written as simple functions which are included in any file name
like test_<something>.py.::

  #this function will be called simply because it is called test_*()

  def test_add()
      a = 10
      b = 23
      c = 33
      assert a + b = c
    
or as classes::

  import unittest:
      
  class AddTester(unittest.TestCase)
      
      def SetUp()
          self.a = 10
          self.b = 23
 
      # this function will 
      def test_add()
        c = 33
        assert self.a + self.b = c

     # this function will 
      def test_subtract()
        c = -13
        assert self.a - self.b = c

Both methods work fine in most circumstances; the function based interface is simpler and
quicker and so that's probably where you should start when you are just trying to add a
few basic tests for a module.  The class based test allows more tidy set up and tear down
of pre-requisites so if you have many test cases for your module you may want to refactor
to use that.  Assertions using the simple assert function inside the tests will.

A number of the unit test suites include functions that are shared
between several modules, especially in the networking arena.  In these
cases a file is created in the same directory which is then included
directly.


module test case common code
````````````````````````````

Keep common code as specific as possible within the `test/units/` directory structure. For
example, if it's specific to testing Amazon modules, it should be in
`test/units/modules/cloud/amazon/`. Don't import common unit test code from directories
outside the current or parent directories.

Don't import other unit tests from a unit test. Any common code should be in dedicated
files that aren't themselves tests.


Fixtures files
``````````````
To mock out fetching results from devices, you can use ``fixtures`` to read in
pre-generated data.

Text files live in ``test/units/modules/network/PLATFORM/fixtures/``

Data is loaded using the ``load_fixture`` method

See `eos_banner test
<https://github.com/ansible/ansible/blob/devel/test/units/modules/network/eos/test_eos_banner.py>`_
for a practical example.

Code Coverage Online
````````````````````

`The online code coverage reports <https://codecov.io/gh/ansible/ansible>` are a good way
to identify areas for testing improvement in Ansible.  By following red colours you can
drill down through the reports to find files which have no tests at all.

Code Coverage For New or Updated Code
`````````````````````````````````````

New code will be missing from the codecov.io coverage reports so local reporting is
needed.  Most ``ansible-test`` commands allow you to collect code coverage, this is
particularly useful when to indicate where to extend testing.

To collect coverage data add the ``--coverage`` argument to your ``ansible-test`` command line:

.. code:: shell

   ansible-test units --coverage apt
   ansible-test coverage html

Results will be written to ``test/results/reports/coverage/index.html``

Reports can be generated in several different formats:

* ``ansible-test coverage report`` - Console report.
* ``ansible-test coverage html`` - HTML report.
* ``ansible-test coverage xml`` - XML report.

To clear data between test runs, use the ``ansible-test coverage erase`` command. For a full list of features see the online help::

   ansible-test coverage --help


.. seealso::

   :doc:`testing_units_modules`
       Special considerations for unit testing modules
   `Python 3 documentation - 26.4. unittest — Unit testing framework <https://docs.python.org/3/library/unittest.html>`_
       The documentation of the unittest framework in python 3 
   `Python 2 documentation - 25.3. unittest — Unit testing framework <https://docs.python.org/3/library/unittest.html>`_
       The documentation of the earliest supported unittest framework - from Python 2.6
   `pytest: helps you write better programs <https://docs.pytest.org/en/latest/>`_
       The documentation of pytest - the framework actually used to run Ansible unit tests
