docs/docsite/rst/dev_guide/testing_running_locally.rst, before:

***************
Testing Ansible
***************

.. contents:: Topics

This document describes how to:

* Run tests locally using ``ansible-test``
* Extend

Requirements
============

There are no special requirements for running ``ansible-test`` on Python 2.7 or later.
The ``argparse`` package is required for Python 2.6.
The requirements for each ``ansible-test`` command are covered later.


Test Environments
=================

Most ``ansible-test`` commands support running in one or more isolated test environments to simplify testing.


Remote
------

The ``--remote`` option runs tests in a cloud hosted environment.
An API key is required to use this feature.

    Recommended for integration tests.

See the `list of supported platforms and versions <https://github.com/ansible/ansible/blob/devel/test/runner/completion/remote.txt>`_ for additional details.


Interactive Shell
=================

Use the ``ansible-test shell`` command to get an interactive shell in the same environment used to run tests. Examples:

* ``ansible-test shell --docker`` - Open a shell in the default docker container.
* ``ansible-test shell --tox --python 3.6`` - Open a shell in the Python 3.6 ``tox`` environment.

Code Coverage
=============

Add the ``--coverage`` option to any test command to collect code coverage data.

Reports can be generated in several different formats:

* ``ansible-test coverage report`` - Console report.
* ``ansible-test coverage html`` - HTML report.
* ``ansible-test coverage xml`` - XML report.

To clear data between test runs, use the ``ansible-test coverage erase`` command.

Commit message:

testing documentation - clean up structure, especially code coverage - reduce repetition

docs/docsite/rst/dev_guide/testing_running_locally.rst, after:

***************
Testing Ansible
***************

.. contents:: Topics

This document describes how to:

* Run tests locally using ``ansible-test``
* Extend

Requirements
============

There are no special requirements for running ``ansible-test`` on Python 2.7 or later.
The ``argparse`` package is required for Python 2.6.
The requirements for each ``ansible-test`` command are covered later.


Test Environments
=================

Most ``ansible-test`` commands support running in one or more isolated test environments to simplify testing.


Remote
------

The ``--remote`` option runs tests in a cloud hosted environment.
An API key is required to use this feature.

    Recommended for integration tests.

See the `list of supported platforms and versions <https://github.com/ansible/ansible/blob/devel/test/runner/completion/remote.txt>`_ for additional details.


Interactive Shell
=================

Use the ``ansible-test shell`` command to get an interactive shell in the same environment used to run tests. Examples:

* ``ansible-test shell --docker`` - Open a shell in the default docker container.
* ``ansible-test shell --tox --python 3.6`` - Open a shell in the Python 3.6 ``tox`` environment.

Code Coverage
=============

Code coverage reports make it easy to identify untested code for which more tests should
be written.  Online reports are available but only cover the main ansible branches (see
:doc:`testing`).  For new code local reports are needed.

Add the ``--coverage`` option to any test command to collect code coverage data.  You may
have to use ``--tox`` and ``--requirements`` option to ensure that the coverage module is
available

   ansible-test units --coverage apt
   ansible-test integration --coverage aws_lambda --tox --requirements
   ansible-test coverage html


Reports can be generated in several different formats:

* ``ansible-test coverage report`` - Console report.
* ``ansible-test coverage html`` - HTML report.
* ``ansible-test coverage xml`` - XML report.

To clear data between test runs, use the ``ansible-test coverage erase`` command. For a full list of features see the online help::

   ansible-test coverage --help
